Add initial documentation for URLPattern. (#27)
GoogleChromeLabs/puppy-content: content/en-US/api/URLPattern.md

---
recipe: api-interface
title: 'URLPattern'
mdn_url: /en-US/docs/Web/API/URLPattern
specifications: https://github.com/WICG/urlpattern/blob/main/explainer.md
browser_compatibility: api.URLPattern
---

// For newer or recently updated specs, the preferred heading anchor is one
// beginning with 'dom'.

// Please do the following:
// 1. Replace all [[tokens]] with the specified information. Be sure to remove
// the brackets.
// 2. Answer all questions in comments.
// 3. Remove all comments.

**When this feature ships, the content below will live on MDN under
[developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API).**

// Example interface page at: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ContentIndex

## Description

// Complete the sentence below with a basic description of the API.
// You may add more sentences if needed.

The `URLPattern` interface provides a web platform primitive for matching

> URLs.  The pattern syntax is adopted from the popular [path-to-regexp][]

Reviewer: This is for matching in URLs in service workers, right? Please say that.

Author: It can be used for matching URLs in service workers, but no its not only for that.  You can use it for routing within a single page app in a document, for example.  It works in all window and worker javascript contexts.

javascript library and is more ergonomic than using regular expressions.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Normalization

When a URL is parsed it is automatically normalized to a canonical form. For
example, unicode characters are percent encoded in the `pathname` property, punycode
encoding is used in the hostname, default port numbers are elided, paths like
`/foo/./bar/` are collapsed to just `/foo/bar`, etc. In addition, there are some
pattern representations that parse to the same underlying meaning, like `foo` and
`{foo}`. Such cases are normalized to the simplest form. In this case `{foo}` gets
changed to `foo`.

```

## Constructor

> Creates a new `URLPattern` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a new `URLPattern` object. It takes two arguments.

**`URLPatternInput`**

An object describing the URLs you want to match. Its members can be any of
 `protocol`, `username`, `password`, `hostname`, `port`, `pathname`, `search`,
 or `hash`.

**`baseURL`**

A {{domxref('USVString')}} that ...
```

Reviewer: Constructor will need to contain something like this. I don't imagine what I've suggested is correct because I have questions.

- My suggestion matches the IDL that's currently in Chrome, but it doesn't match the examples in your explainer. Which is correct.
- I'm not able to infer what `baseURL` is or how it interacts with the members of `URLPatternInput`.  I would think that `baseURL` would just be a pattern that you want to match, but your examples resolve it to something literal like `self.origin` or `self.location`.

Author: Yes, the webidl is correct.  I'll update the PR today or tomorrow with the additional information you are requesting here.

Reviewer: Leaving open so we remember to check this.

Author: I pushed a new version with more information here.  I didn't feel what you had was quite right, but tried to follow the style to show that there are two different forms of the constructor.  Happy to change further if necessary.

## Properties

**`URLPattern.protocol`**

> Returns the URL protocol pattern set during construction.  This value may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the URL protocol pattern passed to the constructor.  This value may
```

Reviewer: This is the more common way to say it on MDN and seems to me to be a bit clearer to a web developer since it describes what the developer does, not what the UA does. Please change this throughout.

> be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

Reviewer: What's normalization? We'll need to cover that somehow, but I need to understand it before I can recommend an appropriate way to discuss it.

Author: When a URL is parsed it is automatically normalized to a canonical form.  For example, unicode characters are percent encoded in the pathname, punny encoding in the hostname, default port numbers are elided, paths like `/foo/./bar/` are collapsed to just `/foo/bar`, etc.  URLPattern also implements these changes as well.

In addition, there are some pattern representations that parse to the same underlying meaning.  Like `foo` and `{foo}`.  In those cases we normalize the resulting pattern to the simplest form.  In this case `{foo}` gets changed to `foo`.

Reviewer: I submitted another request for changes to add a description of this to the introduction.

**`URLPattern.username`**

Returns the URL username pattern set during construction.  This value may
be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

**`URLPattern.password`**

> Returns the URL username pattern set during construction.  This value may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the URL password pattern set during construction.  This value may
```

Reviewer: It looks like you forgot to update your cut and paste work. Please fix throughout.

be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

**`URLPattern.hostname`**

Returns the URL username pattern set during construction.  This value may
be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

**`URLPattern.port`**

Returns the URL username pattern set during construction.  This value may
be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

**`URLPattern.pathname`**

Returns the URL username pattern set during construction.  This value may
be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

**`URLPattern.search`**

Returns the URL username pattern set during construction.  This value may
be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

**`URLPattern.hash`**

Returns the URL username pattern set during construction.  This value may
be differ from the input to the constructor due to normalization.

## Events

None

## Methods

**`URLPattern.test()`**

Matches the input against the pattern returning true on success and false

> otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a boolean indicating whether the passed string matches the current pattern.
```

Reviewer: More consistent with MDN style.

**`URLPattern.exec()`**

Matches the input against the pattern returning a URLPatternResult object on

> success and null otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a `URLPatternResult`  object containing detailed information about the match along with capture groups, or null if there is no match.
```

## Examples

> ### Example: Construct a URLPattern to filter on a specific URL component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Filter on a Specific URL Component
```

> The following example shows how a URLPattern can be used to filter on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how a URLPattern filters a
```

Reviewer: This is an example of a writing best practice to omit needless words: specifically, words that don't contribute meaning to the sentence.

> specific URL component.  When the URLPattern constructor is called with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specific URL component.  When the `URLPattern()` constructor is called with a
```

structured object of component patterns any missing components default to
the `*` wildcard value.

```js
// Construct a URLPattern that matches a specific domain and its subdomains.
// All other URL components default to the wildcard `*` pattern.
const pattern = new URLPattern({

>   hostname: {*.}?example.com

Reviewer: Does the value of `hostname` need to be in quotes? When I run this in a console, the period causes 'SyntaxError: Unexpected token'.

Author: No.  But the pattern itself needs to be in quotes.  Look like I forgot that here.

Reviewer: That's what I meant: the pattern.

Author: Fixed in latest push

});

> // `{*.}?example.com`
> pattern.hostname;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Prints '{*.}?example.com' 
console.log(pattern.hostname);
```

Reviewer: The change to this doesn't need to be as radical as I at first thought. My change is to show you how MDN would handle this. Please change throughout.

Author: Leaving this one open as a reminder to do all of them.

Author: Fixed in latest push.

// `*`
pattern.protocol;
pattern.username;
pattern.password;
pattern.pathname;
pattern.search;
pattern.hash;

// true
pattern.test("https://example.com/foo/bar");

// true
pattern.test({ hostname: "cdn.example.com" });

// true
pattern.test("custom-protocol://example.com/other/path?q=1");

// false because the hostname component does not match
pattern.test("https://cdn-example.com/foo/bar");
```

> ### Example: Construct a URLPattern from a full URL string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Construct a URLPattern from a Full URL String.
```

The following example shows how a URLPattern can be constructed from a full
URL string with patterns embedded.  If there is no ambiguity between whether

> a character is a URL separate or a pattern character then it just works.

Reviewer: What are URL separates and pattern characters?

Author: That should be URL "separator".  Like how `https://example.com/` has a colon after the `https` protocol.  Pattern strings also use colon for the beginning of named groups like `:foo`.  Another example of this is `?` which is used before URL search params like `https://example.com/?q=1` and in pattern strings as an optional modifier like `:foo?`.

Author: I tried to reword this to be more clear in the latest push.

```js
// Construct a URLPattern that matches URLs to CDN servers loading jpg images.
// URL components not explicitly specified, like search and hash here, result
// in the empty string similar to the URL() constructor.
const pattern = new URLPattern("https://cdn-*.example.com/*.jpg");

// `https`
pattern.protocol;

// `cdn-*.example.com`
pattern.hostname;

// `/*.jpg`
pattern.pathname;

// empty string
pattern.username;
pattern.password;
pattern.search;
pattern.hash;

// true
pattern.test("https://cdn-1234.example.com/product/assets/hero.jpg");

// false because the search component does not match
pattern.test("https://cdn-1234.example.com/product/assets/hero.jpg?q=1");
```

> ### Example: Constructing a URLPattern with an ambiguous URL string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Constructing a URLPattern with an Ambiguous URL String.
```

The following example shows how a URLPattern constructed from an ambiguous
string will favor treating characters as part of the pattern syntax.  In
this case the `:` character could be the protocol component suffix or it
could be the prefix for a pattern named group.  The constructor chooses
to treat this as part of the pattern and therefore determines this is
a relative pathname pattern.  Since there is no base URL the relative

> pathname cannot be resolved and it throws.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pathname cannot be resolved and it throws an error.
```

```js
// Throws because this is interpreted as a single relative pathname pattern
// with a ":foo" named group and there is no base URL.
const pattern = new URLPattern("data:foo*");
```

> ### Example: Escaping characters to disambiguate URLPattern constructor strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Escaping Characters to Disambiguate URLPattern Constructor Strings
```

The following example shows how an ambiguous constructor string character
can be escaped to be treated as a URL separator instead of a pattern
character.  Here `:` is escaped as `\\:`.

```js
// Constructs a URLPattern treating the `:` as the protocol suffix.
const pattern = new URLPattern("data\\:foo*");

// `data`
pattern.protocol;

// `foo*`
pattern.pathname;

// empty string
pattern.username;
pattern.password;
pattern.hostname;
pattern.port;
pattern.search;
pattern.hash;

// true
pattern.test("data:foobar");
```

> ### Example: Using base URLs for `test()` and `exec()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Base URLs for test() and exec()
```

Reviewer: Special formatting for code keywords is often avoided in headings. In headings the disambiguation value of such formatting is minuscule and leaving it out makes a page visually more appealing.

> The following example show how input values to `test()` and `exec()` can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how input values to `test()` and `exec()` can use
```

base URLs.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ hostname: "example.com", pathname: "/foo/*" });

// True as the hostname based in the dictionary `baseURL` property matches.
pattern.test({ pathname: "/foo/bar", baseURL: "https://example.com/baz" });

// True as the hostname in the second argument base URL matches.
pattern.test("/foo/bar", "https://example.com/baz");

// Throws because the second argument cannot be passed with a dictionary input.
try {
  pattern.test({ pathname: "/foo/bar" }, "https://example.com/baz");
} catch (e) {}

// The `exec()` method takes the same arguments as `test()`.
const result = pattern.exec("/foo/bar", "https://example.com/baz");

// `/foo/bar`
result.pathname.input;

// `bar`
result.pathname.groups[0];

// `example.com`
result.hostname.input;
```

> ### Example: Using base URLs in the pattern constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using base URLs in the URLPattern Constructor.
```

The follow example shows how base URLs can also be used to construct the

> URLPattern.  Its important to note that the base URL in these cases is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URLPattern.  It's important to note that the base URL in these cases is
```

treated strictly as a URL and cannot contain any pattern syntax itself.

Also, since the base URL provides a value for every component the resulting

> URLPattern will also have a value for every component; even if its the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URLPattern will also have a value for every component; even if it's the
```

empty string.  This means you do not get the "default to wildcard" behavior.

```js
const pattern1 = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/foo/*",
                                  baseURL: "https://example.com" });

// `https`
pattern1.protocol;

// `example.com`
pattern1.hostname;

// `/foo/*`
pattern1.pathname;

// empty string
pattern1.username;
pattern1.password;
pattern1.port;
pattern1.search;
pattern1.hash;

// Equivalent to pattern1
const pattern2 = new URLPattern("/foo/*", "https://example.com" });

// Throws because a relative constructor string must have a base URL to resolve
// against.
try {
  const pattern3 = new URLPattern("/foo/*");
} catch (e) {}
```

> ### Example: Accessing matched group values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Accessing Matched Group Values
```

The following example shows how input values that match pattern groups can later
be accessed from the `exec()` result object.  Unnamed groups are assigned index
numbers sequentially.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ hostname: "*.example.com" });
const result = pattern.exec({ hostname: "cdn.example.com" });

// `cdn`
result.hostname.groups[0];

// `cdn.example.com`
result.hostname.input;

// [{ hostname: "cdn.example.com" }]
result.inputs;
```

> ### Example: Accessing matched group values using custom names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Accessing matched group values using custom names.
```
```suggestion
### Accessing Matched Group Values Using Custom Names
```

The following example shows how groups can be given custom names which can
be used to accessed the matched value in the result object.

```js
// Construct a URLPattern using matching groups with custom names.  These
// names can then be later used to access the matched values in the result
// object.
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/:product/:user/:action" });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: "/store/wanderview/view" });

// `store`
result.pathname.groups.product;

// `wanderview`
result.pathname.groups.user;

// `view`
result.pathname.groups.action;

// `/store/wanderview/view`
result.pathname.input;

// [{ pathname: "/store/wanderview/view" }]
result.inputs;
```

> ### Example: Custom regular expression groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Custom Regular Expression Groups
```

The following example shows how a matching group can use a custom regular
expression.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/(foo|bar)" });

// true
pattern.test({ pathname: "/foo" });

// true
pattern.test({ pathname: "/bar" });

// false
pattern.test({ pathname: "/baz" });

const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: "/foo" });

// `foo`
result.pathname.groups[0];
```

> ### Example: Named group with a custom regular expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Named Group with a Custom Regular Expression
```

The following example shows how a custom regular expression can be used with a
named group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/:type(foo|bar)" });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: "/foo" });

// `foo`
result.pathname.groups.type;
```

> ### Example: Making matching groups optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Making Matching Groups Optional
```

The following example shows how a matching group can be made optional by placing
a `?` modifier after it.  For the pathname component this also causes any
preceding `/` character to also be treated as an optional prefix to the group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/product/(index.html)?" });

// true
pattern.test({ pathname: "/product/index.html" });

// true
pattern.test({ pathname: "/product" });

const pattern2 = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/product/:action?" });

// true
pattern2.test({ pathname: "/product/view" });

// true
pattern2.test({ pathname: "/product" });

// Wildcards can be made optional as well.  This may not seem to make sense
// since they already match the empty string, but it also makes the prefix
// `/` optional in a pathname pattern.
const pattern3 = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/product/*?" });

// true
pattern3.test({ pathname: "/product/wanderview/view" });

// true
pattern3.test({ pathname: "/product" });

// true
pattern3.test({ pathname: "/product/" });
```

> ### Example: Making matching groups repeated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Making Matching Groups Repeated
```

Author: Did you intend to drop the leading "Example:" here?

Reviewer: Yes. As with much else, this is how MDN does it.

The following example shows how a matching group can be made repeated by placing

> a `+` modifier after it.  Again, in the pathname component this also treats the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a `+` modifier after it.  In the pathname component this also treats the
```

Reviewer: This is honestly a bit of a judgement call, but here's the reasoning. In a reference work, readers aren't necessarily reading sequentially. I don't like to imply that they need to. The document as a whole still works sequentially if someone choses to read it that way.

`/` prefix as special.  It is repeated with the group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/product/:action+" });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: "/product/do/some/thing/cool" });

// `do/some/thing/cool`
result.pathname.groups.action;

// false
pattern.test({ pathname: "/product" });
```

> ### Example: Making matching groups optional and repeated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Making Matching Groups Optional and Repeated
```

The following example shows how a matching group can be made both optional and
repeated.  This is done by placing a `*` modifier after the group.  Again, the
pathname component treats the `/` prefix as special.  It both becomes optional
and is also repeated with the group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/product/:action*" });
const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: "/product/do/some/thing/cool" });

// `do/some/thing/cool`
result.pathname.groups.action;

// true
pattern.test({ pathname: "/product" });
```

> ### Example: Using a custom prefix or suffix for an optional or repeated modifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using a Custom Prefix or Suffix for an Optional or Repeated Modifier
```

The following example shows how curly braces can be used to denote a custom
prefix and/or suffix to be operated on by a subsequent `?`, `*`, or `+`
modifier.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ hostname: "{:subdomain.}*example.com" });

// true
pattern.test({ hostname: "example.com" });

// true
pattern.test({ hostname: "foo.bar.example.com" });

// false
pattern.test({ hostname: ".example.com" });

const result = pattern.exec({ hostname: "foo.bar.example.com" });

// `foo.bar`
result.hostname.groups.subdomain;
```

### Example: Making text optional or repeated without a matching group.

The following example shows how curly braces can be used to denote text
without a matching group can be made optional or repeated without a
matching group.

```js
const pattern = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/product{/}?" });

// true
pattern.test({ pathname: "/product" });

// true
pattern.test({ pathname: "/product/" });

const result = pattern.exec({ pathname: "/product/" });

// empty object
result.pathname.groups
```

> ### Example: Using multiple components and features at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using Multiple Components and Features at Once
```

## Description

// Complete the sentence below with a basic description of the API.
// You may add more sentences if needed.

The `URLPattern` interface provides a web platform primitive for matching
URLs.  The pattern syntax is adopted from the popular [path-to-regexp][]
javascript library and is more ergonomic than using regular expressions.

### Normalization

When a URL is parsed it is automatically normalized to a canonical form. For
example, unicode characters are percent encoded in the `pathname` property, punycode
encoding is used in the hostname, default port numbers are elided, paths like
`/foo/./bar/` are collapsed to just `/foo/bar`, etc. In addition, there are some
pattern representations that parse to the same underlying meaning, like `foo` and
`{foo}`. Such cases are normalized to the simplest form. In this case `{foo}` gets
changed to `foo`.

## Constructor

Creates a new `URLPattern` object.  It has two forms.

**`new URLPattern(obj)`**

This form of the constructor takes a `URLPatternInit` dictionary object that
describes the URLs you want to match.  Its members can be any of `protocol`,
`username`, `password`, `hostname`, `port`, `pathname`, `search`, `hash`, or

> `baseURL`.  If the `baseURL property is provided it will be parsed as a URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`baseURL`.  If the `baseURL` property is provided it will be parsed as a URL
```

and used to populate any other properties that are missing.  If the `baseURL`
property is missing, then any other missing properties default to the pattern

> `*` wildcard accepting any input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`*` wildcard, accepting any input.
```

**`new URLPattern(pattern, baseURL)`**

This form of the constructor takes a URL string that contains patterns embedded
in it.  The URL string may be relative if a base URL is provided as the second
argument.  Note, it may be necessary to escape some characters in the URL
string where its ambiguous whether the character is separating different URL

> components or if its instead part of a pattern.  For example, you must write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components or if it's instead part of a pattern.  For example, you must write
```
